[MUSIC]
This lecture will give some more examples
of the Internet of things devices.
Just to give you a sort of a better
more concrete idea of what these devices
are and how they differ or how they're
distinct from traditional computers.
So we'll run through
a few more examples and
get a little more detail
about their behaviors.
So take a car,
a car is an IoT device, I will claim.
Okay, the reason I call it this is,
because if you look at a car,
Ii's a thing, clearly.
You look at a car, an old car,
there's an old car, a 50s car maybe.
So old cars had a certain interface,
right?
You drive, you have a steering wheel,
gas pedal, brakes, and so on, the radio,
sort of a simple,
straightforward interface.
What I would consider to be simple.
Now that interface, it was basically
implemented with electrical and
mechanical controls, but there was no
computational intelligence in there.
Early cars, they didn't have computers
in there, processors doing anything.
There was electricity,
there's mechanical stuff, but that was it.
So that was an original device,
it's not IoT, from the 50's.
But nowadays cars have lots of
computational intelligence.
Let's take a look at this.
So, 21st century car.
So what is that?
Looks like a Prius I think.
This car, its got lots of chips in it,
so lots of processors.
That car might have over 50 processors
in it doing different tasks.
For instance its got an anti-lock braking
system they all do these days and
the anti-lock breaking system,
it'll have its own processor
dedicated just to anti-lock braking.
And so, its got that.
Its got fuel injection, right?
Fuel injection system, its gonna have
another processor dedicated to that.
So every sub system has its own processor.
And it's also got a stereo, say.
Stereo system's got to have
it's own processor, but
every subsystem inside the car
has it's own processor.
But the thing about this car that
you notice about this device,
is that even though it has this
computational intelligence,
it has the same basic
interface as that 50s car.
So you drive this car
pretty much the same way.
Now the 50s car, it probably had
manual transmission, I'm gonna guess,
because it's the 50s.
So this will have automatic transmission.
But besides that, it has the same
interface, the same steering wheel,
gas pedal, brake.
So you could train somebody to drive on
the 50s car and they could drive this new
car, even though this new car is enhanced
with all this computational intelligence.
So, that's the thing about IoT devices,
they have a very simple interface.
They want to be easy to use, they want to
give you the benefit of this computational
intelligence, so now you have
anti-lock breaking for instance.
And anti-lock breaking
in case you don't know,
anti-lock breaking,
it prevents the tires from locking, so
you don't want the tires to skid
compared to the road, right?
They should always stay in
good contact with the road.
But if you brake hard,
if you"re moving fast,
you brake hard, the car will skid and the
tires will not move but the car will move.
So anti-lock braking
tries to prevent that.
Now, before anti-lock braking,
what you used to do, I remember when
I learned how to drive on snow.
You skid a lot, right?
So what you do, is when you do a hard
break, you'll pump the breaks, right?
Manually pump the breaks.
And you'd have to remember this,
you'd have to be pretty consciously
aware enough to remember to do this.
Anti-lock breakings do that for
you, right?
Excellent breaking devices,
they take care of that for you.
So this is a great benefit
to drivers nowadays.
Kids they don't even know
about pumping breaks.
They don't learn that
because they don't have to,
anti-lock breaking takes care of it.
So the computational
intelligence is helping you,
reliving you of burdens that you
didn't wanna have to deal with.
But the interface is beautiful.
You don't have to worry, you just hit
brake pedal just like you used to.
It just does better.
It just does what you want it to do,
does better and
makes everything easier for you.
Now, a typical car like this car
that we're looking at right here.
This car, it has computational
intelligence, now whether or
not it has networking
is a different thing.
Cars now a days, actually these days,
cars are having more and more networking.
And you may have heard of this in
the news, but cars are networked actually,
so you can, for instance,
remote start a car, right?
Start it when you're not near the car,
you can start it through the network.
Cars also have,
what do they have in there?
Those, I forget the name of the brand,
there's OnStar, is one brand name.
But when there's an accident,
the car can, through the Internet,
connect with 911 and
call and get help, right?
So this type of thing is present in cars.
My car does not have that.
But I'm cheap and
I'm a professor, I buy old cars.
So my cars are old but new modern cars
have these features built in there [LAUGH]
and they are actually networked.
So that would be a modern car.
The most modern car, that would be an IoT
device because it has the computational
intelligence and it's also
networked to add extra flexibility.
So, that's one device.
Let's take a look at another.
Let's talk about logistics.
Tracking things okay, logistics.
So say you are Walmart or some big company
or your the military, something like that,
and you want to move lots
of things between different
places on a certain time scale, right?
You need to get these from this
manufacturing place to this sales
place on this schedule.
That's logistics.
And the military is all about logistics,
right?
We are waging a war.
We need to get these devices
from here to here and
these people from here to
here on this time frame.
So you wanna move things.
So say you're Walmart, and
you would have to be able to track
these devices that you're moving.
You wanna make sure that they are moving
place to place in a certain time frame.
And you want to be able to at any time,
be able to say,
where is box number whatever, right?
How many boxes do we have of this type
of device at this location at this time?
And you need to be able to
track that dynamically, so
you can get count for things like,
weather difficulties, right?
Maybe the planes are shut down so
you can't move enough
devices from here to here.
So you need to know how many are here so
you can reroute things.
So, to do that, one way,
a very common way, is to use barcodes.
This helps you because every box, every
device, it has a barcode which has some
basic information about what's in the box,
right?
And where the box came from,
stuff like that, gets stuck on the box.
Now, barcodes are in
very common use today.
We use barcodes, if you look at any
food item, you go to the supermarket and
you check yourself out,
you run the barcode over the scanner.
So barcodes are very useful and
they have a certain amount of
information on there and they make it so
that you can just scan the device and
find out information about the device,
or whatever it is, the box.
And it makes it easy to track.
So this is basically old technology,
barcodes have been around for a long time.
Nowadays, you also find RFID tags.
So RFID tags, you can see the antenna,
for one, right there.
It's basically an electronic
version of a bar code.
And what you're seeing is
that sort of spiraling wire,
that's actually the antenna, okay?
A remote antenna.
And what RFID tags allow you to do, why
they're an improvement over barcodes is,
the first thing is, they basically
have a processor inside there.
So you can have a lot more information
about the device than what you
could encode inside a barcode, right?
A ton more information.
And that information can change, right?
Because barcode, once you print that on
the box, that will never change, right?
Until you rip off the barcode,
put a new barcode on.
But that data can never change.
With an RFID tag, that thing could have
flash memory in there if you want to,
that actually reloads,
that gets changed and updated over time.
So for instance, if you want to track
where a box moved, t he box itself and
it's RFID can store that
information over time.
So, as it moves from place to
place you can store that and
you can see the whole path
that the box took, all right?
So, RFID another benefit of these,
is that you don't have to be
right next to them to scan them.
So, if you know anything about a barcode,
you have to take a scanner and
put it right up to the barcode in order
to scan it, you have to try, right?
You have to, I mean, if you ever scan,
like just yesterday I was at Albertson's,
scanning food out.
I have to work to get that scanner
directly over my barcode, right?
With RFID tags, there's a range.
So you just have to be within proximity.
You don't have to have any
particular orientation.
Just be near it, which is helpful, right?
Then you can just run every box
near a scanner, and it'll catch it.
So RFID tags have a lot of advantages over
barcodes and they can easily be networked.
So the scanner can be network
connected to the Internet so
you can keep constant track of where
all your boxes are at some global site.
So Walmart can know where every box is and
what manufacturer, what plant it's in.
And they can keep it all centrally
because the IoT RFID scanner is
actually connected on the network
to its main cloud service.
So, devices can become an IoT
device if you put RFID tags and
the computational intelligence on to them.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]